One morning, as Gregor Samsa was waking up from anxious dreams, hediscovered that in bed he had been changed into a monstrous vermin.He lay on his armour-hard back and saw, as he lifted his head up a little,his brown, arched abdomen divided up into rigid bow-like sections.From this height the blanket, just about ready to slide off completely,could hardly stay in place. His numerous legs, pitifully thin in comparis-on to the rest of his circumference, flickered helplessly before his eyes."What's happened to me?" he thought. It was no dream. His room, aproper room for a human being, only somewhat too small, lay quietlybetween the four well-known walls. Above the table, on which an un-packed collection of sample cloth goods was spread out—Samsa was atravelling salesman—hung the picture which he had cut out of an illus-trated magazine a little while ago and set in a pretty gilt frame. It was apicture of a woman with a fur hat and a fur boa. She sat erect there, lift-ing up in the direction of the viewer a solid fur muff into which her en-tire forearm had disappeared.Gregor's glance then turned to the window. The dreary weather—therain drops were falling audibly down on the metal windowledge—made him quite melancholy. "Why don't I keep sleeping for alittle while longer and forget all this foolishness," he thought. But thiswas entirely impractical, for he was used to sleeping on his right side,and in his present state he couldn't get himself into this position. Nomatter how hard he threw himself onto his right side, he always rolledagain onto his back. He must have tried it a hundred times, closing hiseyes so that he would not have to see the wriggling legs, and gave uponly when he began to feel a light, dull pain in his side which he hadnever felt before."O God," he thought, "what a demanding job I've chosen! Day in, dayout, on the road. The stresses of selling are much greater than the workgoing on at head office, and, in addition to that, I have to cope with theproblems of travelling, the worries about train connections, irregular badfood, temporary and constantly changing human relationships which3never come from the heart. To hell with it all!" He felt a slight itching onthe top of his abdomen. He slowly pushed himself on his back closer tothe bed post so that he could lift his head more easily, found the itchypart, which was entirely covered with small white spots—he did notknow what to make of them and wanted to feel the place with a leg. Buthe retracted it immediately, for the contact felt like a cold shower all overhim.He slid back again into his earlier position. "This getting up early," hethought, "makes a man quite idiotic. A man must have his sleep. Othertravelling salesmen live like harem women. For instance, when I comeback to the inn during the course of the morning to write up the neces-sary orders, these gentlemen are just sitting down to breakfast. If I wereto try that with my boss, I'd be thrown out on the spot. Still, who knowswhether that mightn't be really good for me? If I didn't hold back for myparents' sake, I'd have quit ages ago. I would've gone to the boss andtold him just what I think from the bottom of my heart. He would'vefallen right off his desk! How weird it is to sit up at that desk and talkdown to the employee from way up there. The boss has trouble hearing,so the employee has to step up quite close to him. Anyway, I haven'tcompletely given up that hope yet. Once I've got together the money topay off my parents' debt to him—that should take another five or sixyears—I'll do it for sure. Then I'll make the big break. In any case, rightnow I have to get up. My train leaves at five o'clock."He looked over at the alarm clock ticking away by the chest of draw-ers. "Good God!" he thought. It was half past six, and the hands were go-ing quietly on. It was past the half hour, already nearly quarter to. Couldthe alarm have failed to ring? One saw from the bed that it was properlyset for four o'clock. Certainly it had rung. Yes, but was it possible tosleep through that noise which made the furniture shake? Now, it's truehe'd not slept quietly, but evidently he'd slept all the more deeply. Still,what should he do now? The next train left at seven o'clock. To catch thatone, he would have to go in a mad rush. The sample collection wasn'tpacked up yet, and he really didn't feel particularly fresh and active.And even if he caught the train, there was no avoiding a blow-up withthe boss, because the firm's errand boy would've waited for the fiveo'clock train and reported the news of his absence long ago. He was theboss's minion, without backbone or intelligence. Well then, what if he re-ported in sick? But that would be extremely embarrassing and suspi-cious, because during his five years' service Gregor hadn't been sick evenonce. The boss would certainly come with the doctor from the health